Testing, testing, testing, one, two, three, four.
Testing, one, two, three, four.
This is Monday, December 18.
We're in the Evans Library.
And I have the honor of trying to pick up my microphone first.
I have the honor of chatting with Dr. Greg Garcia.
No, not Dr., just Greg.
Greg Garcia about his experiences as a member of the student body here, class of 62.
Greg, to introduce yourself to the listener of this tape or the reader of the transcript,
please begin by describing family background, where did you grow up, where did you go to high school, what did your family do, that sort of thing.
Okay.
My name is Greg Garcia.
Actually, Gregory A. Garcia is the name.
Born May 28, 1940, in San Antonio, Texas.
Born and raised.
Still live in San Antonio at this time.
My parents were immigrants from Mexico.
They came to Texas right after one family in the middle of the Revolutionary War.
the other family right toward the end of the Revolutionary War and they were, do you want to like their names?
It doesn't matter.
They actually came into this country in 1916.
and the other family in 1924.
Being that my mother's parents were landowners in Mexico and they lost the land during the Revolution, they moved to Texas and not being able to communicate in the English language, they had to work different types of jobs and most of them were in the migrant area.
My father's family
pretty much the same when they came into the country.
Eventually they learned how to speak the language, you know, by process, and they also did a lot of migrant work all over the state of Texas, all the way across to Mississippi.
And unfortunately, I never met my grandfather on my father's side.
He was killed in a car accident in 1924 in San Antonio, and so my dad at that time was
in middle school, and he had to quit school to help with the family obligations.
And so he worked, I would say he had gone away to the eighth grade at that time, or reached the eighth grade.
And so he had helped my grandmother, who lived to the ripe age of about 80.
And so he worked in all kinds of jobs.
Eventually he decided that he was going to, he needed to learn a trade, which he did.
He was very much, was very good with his manual dexterity, was great.
And my dad's a very intelligent person.
learned by going to libraries and picked up the trade as a machinist.
And so he worked in machine shops, starting at the bottom as a helper and on the way up, and subscribed to all kinds of trade journals and learned the trade, became a master machinist at a point in time, which he was very good at.
He went to work for some great Aggies in 1941, I think it was.
He went to work for Polly Kruger, which at that time he owned this company called San Antonio Machine and Supply Company.
And, of course, all the Krugers were very nice people and they took my father under their wing and they
They developed his trade, and he became one, actually, the assistant foreman in the machine shop there after a period of time.
Worked for them for like 25 years.
And so he was very, very familiar with all the Krugers.
We knew all the Krugers.
We used to go to their house during the Christmas holidays and visit with them.
And my dad would go over there and put all their lights around the house, and then we'd stay around there.
And Polly was a great man.
There was also Walter Krueger, which I think he was an Aggie, Alex, Alfred, and those other three gentlemen in particular.
I went to public school first six years of my education.
I did not know how to speak English when I started first grade, and so it was a difficult process.
With the help of my brother and my sister, I was able to survive and learn how to speak the language.
And so for the first six years I attended a school in San Antonio which was called David Crockett Elementary.
My brother had gone to a public school.
My sister had gone to public high school.
They're approximately, I think my brother's about ten years older than I am.
My sister's about six or seven years older than I am.
And so actually they were way ahead.
But in a sense, it worked out real well for me because since I was the youngest, they always made sure that I was taken care of.
Because my parents at times, since they felt uncomfortable in communicating in the English language, my brother or my sister would be the spokesperson whenever I needed some assistance or help.
And at the end of the sixth grade, my mother and my father felt that for me to progress and probably continue and go into higher education, that I needed to
to go to a school that would probably give me that opportunity or teach me so I could go into higher education.
So my mother and father decided that they would send me to Central Catholic.
Central Catholic at that time had seventh and eighth grade.
So I'm really dating myself here.
So I went to Central Catholic.
I was not happy about going there because all my friends that were at the elementary school all went to
the junior high in the area, and then they were all going to go to the high school that I anticipated I was going to go to.
I told my parents, well, I'll go for, you know, the seventh, eighth grade, ninth grade.
I'd like to catch up with my friends or tenth grade.
Well, as it is, you know, you get comfortable in the situation.
So I stayed at Central Catholic.
So when I completed the eighth grade, I was very comfortable, so I stayed there.
And Central Catholic at that time was pretty diverse, pretty diverse student body.
And everyone seemed to get along real well.
Of course, it was a very strict discipline because of the brothers and then the priests that were there.
But anyway, completed my four years at Central Catholic.
Well, actually six years because I was seventh, eighth, and then high school.
And wound up, applied to A&M.
All right.
You finished high school what year?
1958.
About how many in the senior class?
There was 170 I think at that time.
Central Catholic was a lot larger, a lot bigger school.
Enrollment was a lot higher than what it is today.
Our senior, our student body when I was there was like 900 students.
Today it's like about 500.
The reason I think it was so, the enrollment was so large was the fact that we had transition period, seventh, eighth, you know, they kept moving up.
And so I think two years after I went up to, when I was a sophomore, junior in high school, that was the last group of seventh and eighth graders that they had at that time.
So yeah, I graduated in 58.
You said you applied to A&M.
What did you know about A&M
before you decided to come here.
How did you hear about A&M?
I heard about A&M through my father and Polly Kruger and the Krugers.
And then all the engineers that worked there at SAM School were all A&M graduates.
And my dad's boss' son, his foreman, his son was an A&M graduate.
So my dad felt that this is where I needed to go to school.
My mother was not in favor of it, period.
But my dad said, I want you to go to A&M.
I want you to apply at A&M.
And I remember, I guess since I was five or six years old, he already had that in his mind.
And he was relaying that to me.
And I remember sitting at home with him, and we would listen to the football games on the radio.
In particular, like, later on when I got a little older, like when I was 10 and 11, I started realizing what he's trying to get across to me.
And because I remember some of the football players from those days,
Bob Smith, I remember that name, I remember, oh, there's so many of them, I'm just blank right now, but there was, I just started following the A&M, the school itself, never been here.
I had never come up to the campus.
I actually only came up to the campus one time before my freshman year, and that was when I applied.
and they sent a letter back asking me to come up, and they had their battery of testing that it was a two-day situation.
It was a Friday and a Saturday, I remember that, and they put us in the dorm, and they tried to make it sound like it was a great place to come to school.
I never anticipated what the Corps was all about at that time, but anyway.
I remember the two days we were here in the dining halls, we used to call them mess halls, and it seemed okay.
It wasn't the most fabulous place in the world but I felt comfortable.
You came up in the car.
Yeah I came up in the car.
Another Central graduate, his last name was Garza, Frank was his first name.
And Frank Garza and I drove up.
And we spent the Friday here.
We came up really early that Friday and spent that Friday here and then half day on Saturday.
And so we took all the tests that they gave us.
And then we went back and they said they'd let us know what the results were.
So about a month later or so we received notification that we were admitted to report at a certain time.
There was no come back up and all that.
Just come over here.
Here's a form.
Fill it out.
You're coming.
If you want to be enrolled, what do you prefer, Army, Air Force?
And you checked off.
And who do you prefer as a roommate?
And actually, you had a roommate.
We had, if I'm not mistaken, I think it was either 12 or 13 Central Catholic graduates that came up.
Of course, even back then in those days, the Central Catholic graduates that left would come back and talk to us about coming up to A&M or enrolling at A&M.
And so we did.
I mean, it was about 12 or 13 out of us.
That was 170, which wasn't bad.
You know, it was pretty good.
And fortunately, I can say that of that 12 or 13 that were here, one of them transferred to TU.
But even after he transferred, he would come back and say, you know, my heart's here.
for whatever reasons that he transferred to Texas, and that was, you know, why he did it.
And the rest of us, one of them didn't make it.
I think he completed two years, and the rest of us graduated from A&M.
So we were kind of, we kind of stayed close together.
Oh, that's correct.
And I don't know what happened to a lot of those high school buddies and, well, my Aggie buddies then, but there's one or two that I still stay in touch with.
When you came up to enroll,
Did you come in, did your parents bring you or did you come with a group or what?
No.
My father and my brother brought me up.
What did you bring in the way of belongings when you came to enroll?
The Foot Locker.
Where'd you get the Foot Locker?
Academy Army Surplus in San Antonio.
It was, I still remember, it was a navy blue Foot Locker with gold trim, which is what they, since I was going to the Air Force, they asked to get a navy blue one or a blue one or whatever.
They brought me up the day that I had to report.
They came up.
We only had one car in the family.
My brother had just gotten out of the Air Force.
As a matter of fact, he had been out of the Air Force and he was married already.
We came up early in the morning.
I had to be here at mid-morning sometime.
And so when I came in, the first thing they told us to do, they kind of had a schedule for us.
Go to a certain place on the campus and get some kind of a card.
And then from that, you go to get fitted for uniforms.
And so you follow the process.
So about, I'd say, lunchtime.
wound up back at the dorm where my outfit was and I had no idea what it was.
I just knew that I was to report to a certain dorm and so my brother and my father took the footlocker out, went up to the dorm and so the CO happened to be out in the hallway when we came in.
He was from San Antonio, I still remember his name, Johnny Gatlin.
He greeted us, and then my dad said, well, we're going to leave him here, but we'd like to have lunch with him.
And before we go, is that all right?
He said, of course, go on, you know.
And so he said, the student center's right up two blocks from the dorm area, and you'll probably get a pretty good meal there.
So we went over there, had lunch, and then they brought me back.
and dropped me off and said, we'll see you later.
And not knowing that when I was gonna go back home,
But the CEO at that time mentioned to them that we would be going through our freshman week training, and that on that Friday they would let us go home before the sophomores showed up the next week.
So it was a rude awakening.
There was not a fish camp then, was there?
No.
Describe that week.
I felt that I was ready for A&M in the sense that when I was at Central Catholic, I had been very involved in the ROTC program there, which they've always had an excellent program.
I had gone through the ranks at Central Catholic and attained the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
executive corps commander of the corps at Central Catholic.
At that time, the group was about 300 in the ROTC unit there, and so I felt I was ready, you know, and I came up here.
I mean, I can do anything these guys want me to do, and it didn't take me long.
As soon as my dad and my brother left, I went to my room, and here walks in the first sergeant.
And he tells me to get up against the wall, wants to see 13 wrinkles in my chin.
I was kind of chunky, but I wasn't going to be able to do that.
So he started telling me what he expected.
I still remember his name.
His last name was Lee.
And as far as I knew, his first name was Sergeant.
He's the first sergeant.
Bob Lee.
His first name was Bob.
And he was from California, Van Nuys, California.
I'll never forget that.
He's a pretty fair individual.
let me know exactly what was expected of me as a fish, that I no longer had my first name, that I was a fish, and that was my name, and that I had no privileges, I was scum of the earth, the whole thing.
Just gave it to you in about 15 minutes.
I looked at everything that I had, my shoes, and he said, those shoes need to be polished, yadda yadda yadda.
You need a haircut?
I thought I had a pretty short haircut.
He said, no, you need to get a haircut.
And after he lectured me and never did he, you know, what I would say, physically haze me.
You know, a lot of people have the misconception that they did those kind of things.
He just talked to me.
You know, discipline was the main thing, I guess, trying to put discipline or telling me what discipline was and what A&M, what it was here.
After we completed that, which was about, I said, about 15 minutes, he says, I'm going to Northgate.
And he says, I see you have all your uniforms already.
You need to take them to a cleaners.
There's a few up at Northgate.
I'll take you up to where I take my uniforms.
And they have to have, you have to have those uniforms ready to wear on Thursday morning for a fit.
and starched.
So, takes me up to Northgate with him, and he says, you can go in here, get your uniforms fixed.
They have a lot of alteration people here, and they had, I mean, they had a, then these ladies were in there, they were just doing all the, all the alterations, and, and then he says, then you go around the block there, you get a haircut.
And so, he says, and I expect that what I've told you to this point, you're gonna remember.
So at that time, yes sir, no sir, yes sir, no sir.
So when I got out of the car, I started to thank him, and then I remembered one of the things that he told me, that you never thank an upperclassman.
If an upperclassman did something for you,
It was because he wanted to do it and never, never thank an upperclassman.
And so I got out of the car and I started to say thank you and then he says, you got everything straight?
And I said, yes, sir.
And I remembered that.
So I never did thank an upperclassman and all that.
During my whole freshman year, I never thanked an upperclassman because that was not, they were doing things for you and you didn't have to thank them for anything if they went out of their way.
Came back to the dorm, my fish old lady was there by the time I arrived and he was going through the same drill that I was going through when I came through the door.
So the first sergeant put me up against the wall again and I went through the drill again.
My first roommate, an official lady, was a young man out of Houston, I still remember his name, Charlie Organ.
What?
Charlie Organ, Charles Organ, or G-A-N.
And so we tried to help each other out, try to make sure everything's right.
He lasted through the fish week and he always kept looking out the window because you could see the Aggie band practicing out.
He was always looking out the window, watching the Aggie band out there practicing, and so he decided that after our first week there, we were in Squadron 6, it was Elno 6, as a pink elephant in a champagne glass, kind of a
Are you saying E-L-M-O?
E-L-N-O.
Hell no, like hell no.
So they call it, instead of using the word hell no, they say L-NO-6.
And it was a pink elephant in a champagne glass, kind of intoxicated.
And so what we did, he decided to go to the Aggie band, so then I was without a roommate for
for about a couple of days and then they decided that they were gonna move another freshman.
His name was Bobby Dotson.
I remember him from Amarillo, Texas.
And he was kind of a shy individual, very religious.
And I said, well, this is not going to work.
But anyway, we worked it out for almost the whole year.
And then after that, he...
My last official lady was a gentleman named William Weisinger from Conroe, Texas.
As a matter of fact, I still stay in touch with him.
He's a retired colonel from the Air Force, lives in California.
So he's made every reunion that we've had, as I have, over the years.
So we stay in touch with each other, either by mail or phone or email or whatever.
We were very close.
Bill Weisinger and I were very close.
I mean, we developed a very strong relationship.
I was kind of like, during the freshman year, we kind of got to know each other pretty well.
When we came in as sophomores, we were already very, very tight, you know.
We were like brothers, really, in reality.
And there wasn't anything that he wouldn't do for me the same way it was for myself, for him.
And so we go in the right direction here.
That first year, describe your room.
What was in your room?
Our room was the barest thing that you've ever seen in your life.
The room was just four walls, concrete floor, which had to be polished, had to be high gloss with the Johnson's floor wax, and that was one of the first things we had to make sure that that room was ready for inspection that Saturday.
They let us out that Saturday at noon, I remember that.
And it was a Friday afternoon, so that Friday morning that room had to be ready for inspection.
The CO, Captain Gatlin,
uh... squadron commander and uh... and the executive officer uh... and the first sergeant the executive officer was bruce hudson he was bruce hudson was from houston and big tall guy and they came in there and inspected us on a friday morning and and of course our floor had to be completely uh... i mean you should be able to see your face in it and everything had to be you just had the
the wash basin and two closets, one on each side, your foot locker, two desks.
You were allowed to have a curtain, so we had a curtain.
That was it.
No radio?
No radio.
Well, yes, they did let us have a radio, but we could not have them on except on
It was certain times of the day.
We couldn't have them in the morning for wake-up call or during call the quarters.
On weekends they would let us have the radios.
Now, if we did things that they did not, if we get in trouble for things that we shouldn't do,
then they would take your radio privileges away.
So we didn't have telephones because they only had one phone which was in the end of the hall and anybody wanted to call, you called by phone.
That's only for emergencies because most communication was by mail.
And that was it.
And so the room in itself was nothing to brag about.
You had to be a senior to have a room that you could put in curtains, carpeting, do the things that you wanted to.
I think when you're a junior, you could also have a throw rug out there, but that was about it.
It was, you know, a class status type thing.
So the idea was that your class stuck together, as it always has been.
And so there was about 35 of us, 35 freshmen, I'd say.
How did you register for classes that first?
Do you remember?
Yeah, we registered for class during the week, and I can't remember what day it was, but they had everything ready for us.
What they gave us is these IBM cards, and you would go to the course, the particular course.
Sebesa or?
Sebesa.
Sebesa, right, at Sebesa.
And you had a certain time that you would go in,
And when you went in there, then you started looking for the particular whatever courses you could take, go there.
They assigned you a time and you had to take whatever they gave you.
You know, it wasn't a situation, there was no situation where you would go in there and say, well, I want this prof or that prof or that.
They didn't even tell you who the profs were going to be because that's the way it was.
So I guess I learned during the process of
of registering that you would try to work your classes according to what fits your needs.
And at first it was, you know, like classes, because we used to have drill on Saturday, so Monday through Friday, my classes were all over the place.
And I said, no, this isn't going to work.
So, I mean, I learned something from that the next time around, try to put them all in line where I wouldn't have to be walking all over the campus.
And so that worked out.
Did you have some, as you look back, were some of those courses you had that first year important to you?
Do you have some key courses and or teachers?
Your freshman year?
Well, I started out in pre-law.
And I guess the history courses were very important to me.
But I love history.
Who taught them?
Do you remember?
God, I can't remember the name of the professors.
But they were important to me.
And of course English, which I was very weak in.
I had to take a remediation course in English.
And I had probably the only female teacher professor on the campus.
Who?
I'll try to go back.
We'll get that later.
She was in the 58.
Describe her in her abilities and her methods of teaching and so forth.
She was young.
I'd say around her mid-twenties probably, blonde.
Good teacher?
Yeah she was a good teacher.
She was a good teacher.
She did a great job.
I don't think she stayed here very long probably because it was mostly all male.
But she was the only, I remember, probably one of the few female teachers.
We had a pretty good-sized class.
I'd say about 25 or 30 students in there.
And so she was very disciplined.
We did a lot of writing and term paper, very difficult.
She made it very difficult.
We had to go one of the term papers that we had, which was a short paper, and then we had a longer one.
I can't remember which one that was, but it was artwork that was in the student center.
and we had to write an essay on the artwork, as we saw the picture, or the art.
And so we, I put a lot of time into that.
I remember sitting in the student center and looking and looking and looking at it.
And then I was very disappointed in the grades she gave me because I thought that I should have, I had done better than what the grades she gave me.
And my official lady at that time was an English major.
So when I wrote the paper, he checked it.
And if there was any corrections to me, he made the corrections.
So when I turned in, I said, well, I've got a great paper here.
And so she gave me a C on that paper.
And I'm pretty sure that's what it was.
And I thought I had a B or better, you know.
But anyway, it didn't happen.
And I guess back then I was a freshman not into the going and speaking to the professors and talking to them and telling them that, you know, I, you know, in other words, you go over there and sell yourself to the professor.
So I wasn't in that mode at that time, but I learned as you go.
And the more time you can go in there, the better off you are.
And mainly if you show that you have interest in the course and you're trying to do the right thing.
But that course in particular was important because I think that kind of set the tone for me.
I never had to repeat an English course.
And so when I went into freshman year,